Frequently Asked Questions
This page is regularly updated with Frequently Asked Questions that we receive from members of the public. If you have a question you would like answered, please contact us.

How is my privacy protected?
The Human Variome Project Australian Node takes the privacy of patients extremely seriously. We recognise that the results of genetic tests are sensitive and have taken numerous steps to protect patient privacy.

The Australian Node does not store identifying patient information. The data we collect from the lab is limited to information about the test and the result itself. The only information that is collected that could be considered personally identifiable is the age of the patient at the time of testing.

In recognition that the number of genetic testing laboratories in Australia is low, we also do not display the name or location of the laboratory performing the tests recorded in the Australian Node, although we do store this information.

To enable information in the Australian Node to be linked to other national datasets through the BioGrid system, each record has an associated “linkage key.” This key is a random string of letters and numbers that is generated in a non-reversible manner from some of your personally identifiable information. However, the key is generated in the laboratory, not by the Australian Node, so your information never has to leave the laboratory’s systems.

Learn more about the data that the Australian Node collects and stores...

How is the information transported from the lab to the Node?
Information is transported from the laboratory to the Australian Node via a secure, encrypted internet connection, similar to how information from your bank is delivered to you when you bank online.

Who has access to the information
Only employees of accredited pathology labs undertaking genetic testing, registered medical practitioners who specialise in genetic disorders and genetic counsellors are able to access information through the Australian Node Portal.

Some records from indivudals who have consented to research use of their data may be made available to scientists undertaking research. Research use of the information must be approved by a Human Research Ethics Committee.

All requests for access will be reviewed by our Data Access Committee on a regular basis.

Read the Australian Node Data Access Policy.